#Sleep/Protocol/Use 
# Phase 1 Waking and Early Morning(Hours 1-4)             6:30 AM - 10:30 AM
- [ ] Get Light exposure in the morning by going outside
- [x] Delay caffeine by **90-120 minutes after waking** ✅ 2024-03-20
- [x] Drink 32 Ounces of **Water with a pinch of Sea salt** ✅ 2024-03-20
- [x] **Cyclic hyperventilation** for increased energy ✅ 2024-03-20

> [!info] Cyclic Hyperventilation
>To practice
> Take a **deep inhale** through your nose, immediately followed by a **deep exhale** (active or passive) through your mouth.
> « Repeat the above **20-25 times,** then fully exhale until lungs are empty.
>  « Hold for **15–30 seconds**.
>  Repeat for up to **5 minutes** total.
****
# Phase 2 Midday Through Evening (Hours 5-13)          11:30 AM - 6:00 PM
- [ ] **Exercise** to optimize Energy balance.
- [x] **Lower-Carb Lunch** to help avoid a afternoon crash. ✅ 2024-03-20
- [x] **5-30 Minute walk** after Lunch to increase Metabolism and Light exposure. ✅ 2024-03-20
- [ ] Use a **Non-Sleep deep Rest (**NSDR) Protocol for **10–30 minutes** to increase dopamine  levels and mental energy
- [x] Eat dinner with **higher carbohydrates and protein** ✅ 2024-03-20
- [ ] Get **Light Exposure around Sunset**
# Phase 3 Bedtime and Sleeping (Hours 14-24)         7:00 PM - 12:00 AM
- [x] Wake up within (**+/- 1 hour**) each morning, days off included. ✅ 2024-03-20
- [ ] Physiological sighing for **5 minutes**.
- [x] Cool bedroom to **1-3 degrees** lower than usual. ✅ 2024-03-20
- [x] Make **room as dark*** as possible. ✅ 2024-03-20
- [ ] **If woken up** in middle of the night, use NSDR to fall back asleep
      
> [!NOTE] Physiological Sighing
>**To practice:**
>- Take a deep inhale followed by a second, "**top-off**"" **inhale** to maximally inflate the lungs
>- Release all your air with a full "**lungs-to-empty**” **exhale** 
>- **Repeat 2–3 x**.

[[Phase 1 Waking and Early Morning(Hours 1-4)]]
[[Phase 2  Midday Through Evening (Hours 5-13)]]
[[Phase 3 Bedtime and Sleeping (Hours 14-24)]]






